10/10/2021

VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)

VPC is a private network inside public network in order to achieve network isolation.

1. Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) gives you complete control over your 
virtual networking environment, including resource placement, connectivity, 
and security. 
2. With VPC we achive network isolation
3. VPC is a private cloud inside Puplic Cloud 
4. Inside VPC we create Subnets(Sub Networks). 2 types of Subnets --> Public and Private 
5. Difference between Public and Private subnets is Public Subnets have internet connectivity but Private 
Subnets don't have. 
6. Can Subnets in the same VPC have overlapping IP CIDRs? Answer is No. 
7. By default Subnets are private. 
8. Public Route Table --> In order to make it public we need to add Internet Gateway and associate with 
public Subnets
9. Private Route Table --> Traffic remains local to VPC, it means traffic doesn't go outside of VPC 

Security in VPC 

1. NACL --> Network Access Control List is stateless. It means once define inbound rules we must explicitly
define outbound rules as well.
1.2 NACLs work in Subnet level
1.3 NACLs go with rule numbers (for example: 100, 101, 200 and etc.)
2. SG --> Security Group. SG is statefull, means once we define inbound(ingress, incoming) rules we don't 
have to define outbound(egress, outgoung) rules. It's automatically allowed. 
2.1 SGs work in EC2 level 

Date: 10/16/2021 -- VPC cont. 

1. Diagram tools --> draw.io or lucidchart 

HomeWork for 10/23/2021

1. Use draw.io or lucidchart to build VPC with 4 subnests (2 Public and 2 Private) and rest of VPC 
components. 
2. Build README.md file and add all the steps for VPC. 


Date: 10/17/2021

1. We already have a existing VPC (Our house) with 4 subnets. 
2. Existing VPC (Our house) is not enough for our demands. We need scale up the VPC. 
3. We need to build Highly Available (HA) infrastructure. 
4. Highly Available (HA) meaning at least 99.999 % availability  
5. For HA we build multi tier infrastructure
6. Multi tier means --> we deploy our infrastructure/application to multiple AZ (Subnet)
7. HA or Disaster Recovery is same. 
8. Bastion Host (Jump box) --> Provides private connectivity from Public Subnets to Private Subnets. A bastion host 
is a server whose purpose is to provide access to a private network from an external network, such as 
the Internet. Because of its exposure to potential attack, a bastion host must minimize the chances of 
penetration.
9. NAT (Network Address Translation) Gateway --> NAT gateway enables instances in private subnets to connect to the 
internet but prevents them from receiving unsolicited inbound connections from the internet. You should 
associate an elastic IP address with a public NAT gateway and attach an internet gateway to the VPC 
containing it.
10. Elastic IP --> Static IP. 

SSH from BastionHost to Private instances
1. ssh-add -K pem file.
2. ssh -A ec2-user@BastionHost-PublicIP 
3. ssh ec2-user@PrivateInstance-PrivateIP


Date: 10/23/2021 -- VPC cont. Automation 

1. In DevSecOps/Cloud --> We have to build Immutable infrastructure 
2. IAC --> Infrastructure As Code 
3. Which TOOLS used for IAC or Immutable Infrastructure --> CloudFormation. 
4. CloudFormation is an AWS native IAC. 
5. In order to provision Infrastructure we will use CloudFormation
6. CloudFormation templates or CFT supports JSON and YAML. 
7. YAML stands for Yet Another Markup Language. 
8. We usually create PEM file once in single AWS Region and use for all EC2 instance in the same AWS region 
9. CFT anatomy --> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/template-anatomy.html
10. We usually create Key Pair or PEM file manually 
11. aws cloudformation deploy --template-file vpcdeploy.json --stack-name vpc-stack --parameter-overrides KeyName=bastion
12. Deployment --> Fresh Deployment and Upgrade. 

HomeWork --> 10/30/2021

Take existing VPC CFT. Add 2 Subnets (1 public and 1 private). 
Complete Subnet associations Route Table


 



Why we enabled Auto Modify auto-assign IP settings for Public Subnets??
